---
title: Week 1 Wedding-App lab https://joinourbigday.netlify.com/.
date: "2019-03-09T23:46:37.121Z"
---

## Individual Accomplishments

Well my first full week of my lab project is complete. It’s been an interesting week, but my head is held high and I remain optimistic. As far as my contributions to the project, I set the file structure in the root directory. I’ve made the skeletal frame for the dashboard page, and the settings page of the wedding website lab, we’ve named joinourbigday. I also got the front end launched on Netlify. Not a bad amount of results for three hours a day, over four days. Not to say there haven’t been challenges. We’ve had logistic issues from day one. They’ve been perfectly justifiable absences, but absences nonetheless. And there were some technical issues getting the backend deployed on Heroku. Thankfully, we got the issues resolved quickly enough, and are on schedule, A little ahead of schedule, in fact. 

## Detailed Analysis

The dashboard page is where I put the most thought in the week. It was kind of a way to figure out where and how the backend will need to communicate with the frontend. It took a moment to gain traction on the project. I’ve never worked on an app this ambitious and large before, so it was hard to picture exactly how everything will be interconnected. 

Since the routes haven’t been written yet, It would take more time to load the page on the dev server, and take a screenshot than to just explain the progress, so far. I left myself, or whomever will end up connecting the back to the frontend, so we know what needs to be coded, as soon as the data exists. 

I also took the opportunity to brush up on my styled-components. Joseph worked on the signup modal, based on a youtube video he found. The end result looked very professional, and there are strong odds we’ll end up using the same color pallet he used, so I coordinated with him to emulate the same style and pallet on the dashboard. We’re not supposed to focus on styling yet, but I didn’t spend much time on it either. I really just put in enough styling to get all the elements in the general location it is supposed to be in, and maintain continuity in the pallet. Things that can be easily, and quickly changed, if we decide to go with a different final result in the styling. 

## Milestone Reflections

Looking back on the week, I wish I had more opportunity to code in more of the functionality behind the components. It’s difficult reminding myself that the data hasn’t been added yet, so trying to anticipate what will be needed later, could in fact be wasted energy, and cause more problems than it will solve. I think the reason that I rests so heavily on my mind, is the research we did on our competition. The current pages that offer wedding themed web pages, and RSVP list management, have so many features that we have no experience in coding. The whole project seems like jumping into a parkour competition, right after learning how to walk. My more sceptical side, thinks that the whole project is too ambitious, and in reality, there is no way our project will be true competition for the apps that already exist in the field. Not in 10 weeks, anyway. Perhaps, if we continue working on this after the lab is over, we can make this a marketable product. It all seems so lofty considering it took two days for us to work out why the database wasn’t working with Heroku.  Turned out it was a formatting issue. I personally had to spend about two hours figuring out why the front end wasn’t loading on Netlify. It turned out to be a casing issue in the file directory. I have to remind myself frequently, that we are students, and these sort of simple issues, and bugs are to be expected. Even seasoned professionals have to deal with them. Thankfully, there are many plugins that we are researching to make things easier. Like the react-simple-carousel we’re using on the landing page. Or the react-minimal-pie-chart we’re using to show the RSVP statistics. As long as we continue to focus on making the UI simple, and easy to use, I think we’ll make a quality product. After all, if our user could manage their guest list, RSVP’s, and wedding site, easily on their own, there wouldn’t be a demand for this product. 
